# GameBoard Design Document

## 1. Problem Statement
I want to let a user be able to keep track of their wins and losses when playing board games with friends!

The user can create groups with other users that they play games with.

Within those groups, users can update and keep track of every time someone wins at a game.

Users can add or remove games from the list of games that they play.

Finally users can add or remove players from the group.


## 2. Top Questions to Resolve in Review

1. How can I optimize my database structuring?
2. 

## 3. Use Cases

U1.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to keep track of how many times I win or lose a game.

U2.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to join groups with other users.

U3.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to create a new group with other users.  

U4.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to add new games to my group's list of games.

U5.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to remove games from my group's list of games.

U6.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to view information about each game.

U7.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to see the wins and loses of the other users in my group.

U8.  As a GameBoard user, I want to be able to compare my win/loss ratio for the same game across multiple groups.

U9.


## 4. Project Scope


### 4.1. In Scope

* Creating and retrieving groups of users.
* View an individual user's win/loss ratio for a specific game within an individual group.
* Add and remove games from a list specific to each group.
* View other users win/loss ratio for a specific game within a group.
* View information about each individual game.

### 4.2. Out of Scope
* Comparing a user's win/loss ratio for specific games across multiple groups.

# 5. Proposed Architecture Overview
This initial iteration will provide the minimum lovable product (MLP) including the ability to form groups with other users and keep track of individual users wins and losses within the group.

I will be using API Gateway and Lambda to create 14 API endpoints.

I will be using tables in DynamoDB to store the player, group, game, and gameOutcome data.

[See PlantUML](GameBoard.puml) for more details.


# 6. API

## 6.1. Public Models


```
// PlayerModel
String playerId
String playerName
Set<String> groups

// GroupModel
String groupId
String groupName
Set<String> gameIds
Set<String> gameOutcomeIds
Set<String> playerIds

// GameModel
String gameId
String gameName
String rulesLink
String purchaseLink

// GameOutcomeModel
String gameOutcomeId
String groupId
String gameId
String playerWinId
Set<String> playerLoseIds

```


## 6.1. Get Player Endpoint
* Accepts `GET` requests to `/players/:playerName`
* Accepts the playerName and returns a player.
    * If the given player is not found, will throw a
      `PlayerNotFoundException`

## 6.2. Update Player Endpoint
* Accepts `PUT` requests to `/players/:playerName`
* Accepts data to update a Player.
    * if the playerName is not found, will throw a `PlayerNotFoundException`

## 6.3. Create Player Endpoint
* Accepts a `POST` request to `/players/`
* Accepts the data to create a new Player with a playerName, groups, and playerId generated by GameBoard.
  * if the player is invalid return `PlayerNotValidException`

## 6.4. Remove Player Endpoint
* Accepts `DELETE` requests to `/players/:playerId`
* Accepts a playerId and returns the corresponding player.
  * if the playerId is not found return `PlayerNotFoundException`

## 6.5. Get Group Endpoint
* Accepts `GET` requests to `/groups/:groupName`
* Accepts a groupName and returns the corresponding group
    * if the groupName is not found return `GroupNotFoundException`

## 6.6. Create Group Endpoint
* Accpts a `POST` request to `/groups/`
* Accepts the data to create a new Group with a groupName, players, games, and isShown.
    * if group could not be created return `GroupNotValidException`

## 6.7. Update Group Endpoint
* Accepts a `PUT` request to `/groups/:groupName`
* Accepts data to update a Group.
    * if the groupName is not found return `GroupNotFoundException`

## 6.8. Get Game Endpoint
* Accepts a `GET` request to `/games/:gameName`
* Accepts a gameName and returns the corresponding Game
    * if the gameName is not found return `GameNotFoundException`

## 6.9. Create Game Endpoint
* Accepts a `POST` request to `/games/`
* Accepts data to create a new game with a provided gameName, gameRules, purchaseLink, and isShown.  Returns a game generated by GameBoard.
    * if the game is not created return `GameNotValidException`

## 6.10. Update Game Endpoint
* Accepts a `PUT` request to `/game/:gameName`
* Accepts a gameName to update a game.
    * if the gameName is not found return `GameNotFoundException`

## 6.11. Get GameOutcome Endpoint
* Accepts a `GET` request to `/gameOutcome/:gameOutcomeId`
* Accepts a gameOutcomeId to return a gameOutcome.
  * if the gameOutcomeId is not found return `GameOutcomeNotFoundException`

## 6.12. Update GameOutCome Endpoint
* Accepts a `PUT` request to `/gameOutcome/:gameOutcomeId`
* Accepts a gameOutcomeId to update a gameOutcomeId.
  * if the gameOutcomeId is not found return `GameOutcomeNotFoundException`

## 6.13. Create GameOutcome Endpoint
* Accepts a `POST` request to `/gameOutcome/`
* Accepts a gameName, gameId, playerWin, playersLosers, date, and isShown to create a gameOutcome.
  * if the gameOutcome is invalid return `GameOutcomeNotValidException`

## 6.14. Remove GameOutcome Endpoint
* Accepts a `DELETE` request to `/gameOutcome/:gameOutcomeNotFound`
* Accepts data to update a game.
  * if the gameOutcomeId is not found return `GameOutcomeNotFoundException`



# 7. Tables

## 7.1 Players
```
playerId // number
playerName // string
groupIds // set string

```

## 7.2 Groups
```
groupId // number
groupName // string
playerIds // set string
gameIds // set string
gameOutcomeIds // set string
```

## 7.3 Games
```
gameId // number
gameName // string
gameRules // string
purchaseLink // string
```

## 7.4 GameOutcomes
```
gameName // string
groupId // number
gameId // number
playerWin // set string
playersLosers // set string
```

# 8. Pages

See figma link for mock ups
https://www.figma.com/file/PYOTTLM2QGxdPn4sze4gON/GameBoard-rough-draft-flowboard?node-id=0%3A1&t=2A8Sp3rgwfxVbqPd-0